---
title: 'Dive into udf's in pyspark'
date: 2012-08-14
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---
Pyspark Udf(user defined functions) are an easy way to turn ordinary python functions into something which can scale up using the spark capabilities. As Spark stores data in dataframes or RDD's, it isn't possible to create a custom function and run it against the database directly. The function needs to first be registered and then can be used as it were a built-in function like sum(), average(), count(), etc..

There are multiple ways to register a function: 

The first is to explicitly define a udf that you can use a pyspark function:
```
from pyspark.sql.types import StringType
from pyspark.sql.functions import udf, col, pandas_udf, PandasUDFType
from pyspark.sql import SparkSession
 
# Create spark dataframe from example json file
df = spark.read.json("temperatures.json")
spark = SparkSession.builder.appName("Python UDF example").getOrCreate() 

# Regular python fn
def add_one(v):
    return v+1

# Register fn with udf
add_one_udf = udf(lambda v: add_one(v), DoubleType())

df.withColumn('pandas_udf', pandas_add_one(col("avgHigh"))).show()
```

Rather than maintaining two functions : a regular python and another for pyspark('_udf' one) - udf is also available as a decorator.

 ```

@udf('double')
def udf_add_one(v):
    return v+1
```
Tip: For going through cycles of testing/developing new functionality over spark jobs and waiting for the results, use decorator @py_or_udf to use the function as a regular python function (for testing with less data) and udf(for running the spark job once tested).

udf's are slow..
------

Although, since Spark Dataframe is natively a JVM structure and standard acceess methods are implemented by simple calls to Java API. UDF from the other hand are implemented in python and requires moving data back and forth.



what is the difference between @pandas_udf and @udf?

how fast is pandas_udf compared to udf?




Headings are cool
======

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------